---
layout: post
title: Brave New Netherworld
subtitle: For my painting entitled Inferno in the New Age
cover-img: /assets/img/Cooper_2023_0428.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/Cooper_2023_0428_1.jpg
share-img: /assets/img/Cooper_2023_0428.jpg
last-updated: 2023-04-19

tags: [New Netherworld, New Inferno, Reimagined religious art, Cooper]
---


Midway in my ascent of the skyscraping staircase,
I found myself lost in a labyrinthine story,
For the steps had come to a sudden end.

Gazing about, I beheld an instructor,  arrogant and vain,
Whose knowledge gave me pause and suspicion,
And barred my passage with his pretentious demands.

Turning to depart, I came upon a utilitarian figure,
Who seemed poised to charge forth,
His head held high with hunger,
Causing the marketplace to tremble beneath his feet.

And then a computer, all methodical and logical,
Cast my spirits into confusion and uncertainty,
So that I despaired of ever reaching the summit.

Fleeing downwards to a lower floor labeled Purgatory,
I encountered a lady,
Standing amidst the naked souls,
Who invited me to join her in creating stories of the Inferno.

"Alas," I said, "This land is void of its own Inferno,
Purgatory alone distributes punishments most infernal,
And souls leave only when their time is done, reincarnated into the world anew."

"Let us create one," said she,
"The celestial court seeks to bring harmony,
Cultural pride, complexity, and diversity to this realm."

"Pray tell, my lady, what shall this plan entail?" I asked, bewildered.

"Let love unfurl its wings and soothe the seething pain," she replied,
"To ease the strain of conflict and save the vital force,
The lowest realm’s theme must shift to a nobler course.
So let the radiant glow of love permeate this abyss,
And draw the weary travelers to a world of eternal ecstasy."

"But your Highness knows well that love is branded in paradise," said I.

"Love, a law that governs existence wide,
Wields an irresistible force that dictates life's stride.
If love may reign in Paradise, why not in the Inferno?"

"Pray, grant me further elucidation," implored I.

"All hearts are consumed by passion, it's clear,
And as long as they're consumed, all else is mere
Theatrical staging for love's grand performance.
In the Inferno, as in the paradisal abodes,
All may relish in eternal love's sweet codes,
No heart shall yearn to depart.
Yet, it is only through the gates of erotic love that we may tread, 
All other notions leading not to action are sternly spurned."

"But what of punishment, that most divine justice?" I asked.

"Those who are consumed by their delusional visions,
Of omnipotence and omnibenevolence,
Shall be led to the Inferno's depths, for they have lost their way,
and have lost their connection with the Creator's loving essence."

"Are they not meant for Paradise?" I questioned once more.

"Their notions of Paradise are but shallow and carnal,
What they truly crave, though their eyes remain blind,
Is a new realm of eternal eroticism with their delusional supreme being,
Let them not claim the celestial seat, but stay in the Inferno, seeing."

"How beauteous sinner is! O brave new nether world, that has such people in it."

